in more positive news from Gaza the
World Health Organization says it is
ahead of its targets for polio
vaccinations day three of a mass
campaign and so far has inoculated about
a quarter of the children under the age
of 10 the program began over the weekend
it will take place in three locations
Gaza City Rafa and then in the north of
the strip with localized ceasefires
being arranged Dr harinda Silva is a
doctor working for UK Med it's a one of
the UK's medical NOS he's in Gaza and
he's been deeply involved with the polio
vac program thank you very much for
coming on I mean we've been talking
about the challenge of reaching
traumatized children getting them to
come forward with their families are you
encouraged actually by the progress
you've made in in recent
days I I am very encouraged actually and
it's very surprising with how the health
system is set up here in terms of the
destruction of Water Sanitation hygiene
Etc and the ability to move freely over
the past three days we've vaccinated
1600 children and it's going
fantastically well I'm hoping tomorrow
is our last day here at our type one
clinic and we'll have more children
vaccinated by the end of that day I'm
looking at these pictures of the
children coming forward when you see
them face to face how do they appear to
you how do they
present so it's a range of things um
unfortunately most of the children here
are malnourished um very thin some are
stunted depending on the age they are
and again it's just the look of
destitution as well which is quite
shocking and tragic when you see it when
you see children up close and and most
of the children that we see have skin
conditions uh unfortunately because of
the destruction of Water Sanitation
hygiene so we're looking at cases of
Scabies very bad impo and fungal
infections as well the work you're doing
obviously relies on this8 hour pause in
the fighting uh in the specific areas
where you're working has it been
strictly
observed so what we've seen at the two
um field hospitals that UK Med runs our
operations have been working as normal
and uh for us so we're very grateful
that we're able to get the football in
being able to send our community
engagement team out to bring children
and uh speak to the families and get
them to bring their children to the
vaccination Center that we're running at
the moment 2.8 million people in Gaza um
anyone of any age unvaccinated can
contract the disease are you satisfied
that the wider population is
protected it's it's very difficult to
see there was always before um this
conflict started it was vaccination
acceptance so um there was 99% and the
uh population has dropped down to
89% and
obviously with the unvaccinated
population who have been born throughout
this conflict that's and the younger
children I'm hoping that the 95% vaccine
coverage that's needed to prevent spread
of the polio virus will be met Dr harena
Silva it's great work that you're doing
thank you for coming on and do stay
safe thank you bye